---
layout:     post
title:      "Van: Update #1"
date:       2018-01-10 16:00:00
author:     Andrew
header-img: img/posts/van/van-bg.jpg
header-credit: https://unsplash.com/@aaronburden
tags:       personal van vanlife
---

Everyone is long overdue for a van update, so here we go!

Last time we talked, I was in the tear-down phase, removing the old floor and interior construction from the previous owner.  It's safe to say that we're past that phase (for the interior at least).  I was able to successfully remove the old floor and grind off some of the old adhesive holding it down.  In addition to the adhesive, it was also bolted to the metal floor, so I ended up doing a lot of manual work cutting old those old rusted bolts.

<!--break-->

Once the floor was up, there was a little surface rust that I ground down using a wire wheel.  I applied some rust preventative spray as well to hopefully keep any rust from coming back once I put the new floor over it.

I used 1/8" plywood for the floor, and laid underlayment down prior to the plywood to help with noise and make the floor have a slight bit of cushion.  This will probably offer a slight bit of insulation as well, but that's only a side benefit.

The bulk of my time since the last update has been spent on insulation and putting in the walls.

As you can see in this picture, there's approximately 3-4 inches of space to work with for insulation between the skin of the van and the inside of the supports.  Once I put up walls, that space would be sealed off anyway, so it made sense to take advantage of that and fill it with insulation.  The goal is to help keep the van cool in the summer and warm in the winter (with help from a heater).  In order for the insulation to work properly, I'll have to take other steps like you would in any car (park in the shade, use a sun visor, etc.), but any little bit counts!

I spent some time doing research on possible materials, and I first settled on polyiso panels (see picture).  The panels have very good insulation properties, and I had a friend with some in his garage already, so I figured I'd give that a shot first before spending money on more expensive options.  My goal was to glue the sheets in place against the van skin.  To spare you the suspense, this did not go according to plan.

Firstly, the sheets are very rigid, so they needed to be cut into smaller pieces to actually nestle into the spaces without just flexing back.  Secondly, the several adhesives I tried all failed within a few days.  Thankfully, I hadn't put up the walls/ceiling yet, so I was able to see they were still loose.  I even tried using a jack to hold them firmly in place while the adhesive cured, but it just wasn't meant to be.  Lastly, even if I would have gotten them to stick, they made a truly annoying squeaking noise whenever they're rubbed against anything.  Avoiding that noise was probably a blessing in disguise!

After going back to the drawing board, I decided to check out denim insulation.  It comes in rolls that can be ripped easily into different shapes without any special tools or protective equipment.  It's made from recycled jeans, and has above average insulation properties as well.  This was easy to work with, and a spray adhesive easily held it in place until the walls were in.

After the insulation was in place, the walls started to go up.  I used 1/8" plywood and screws to attach the plywood to the supports on the inside of the van.  Cutting the plywood to shape was the hardest part because of the curvature of the walls, and the cutouts needed for wiring or structural elements.  There weren't too many obstacles here, but this part did get a bit tedious.  It's definitely motivating to start to see things come together though!

As things currently stand, the floor, the ceiling, and the left wall of the van are insulated and the plywood walls are up, and the insulation is sized for the rest of the walls and the rear doors.  Special shout out to my friend Nick for providing much needed common sense and the gracious use of his driveway and tools for this project.  He definitely had a better idea of what I was getting into before I did.

-Andrew
